Hello friends
In this video let us discuss about quadratic probing In
the previous videos we learned about linear probing which is
one method to handle and avoid collision here if any
collision
occurs we are linearly checking for the available index
one by one
So in linear probing if any collision occurs the
formula to calculate the new key value is F(x)
equal to x+I mod size
Were I equal to 123 for etcetera And what is
it Disadvantage here as we're placing elements linearly once
collision
occurs the consecutive elements will form a cluster so
after that it will be very hard to find the
next available index
And also if the cluster has many elements it will
be hard to search for an element
And we can eliminate this issue by using quadratic probing
in quadratic probing Instead of looking for the next slot
we are looking for the next i square slot
That is if the require index is not available
What did we do in linear probing We will check
the immediate next slot and if it is also not
available we will check the next slot like that but
in quadratic probing if collision occurs we will check
the next slot first and if it is not available
then we will check the slot after two square elements
That is the fourth slot and if it is also
not available we will check this slot after three square
elements that is like that so it will avoid the
cluster by distributing elements in various indices
So in quadratic probing if any collision
occurs the formula to calculate the new key value
is F(X) equal to x plus i square
Mod size were equal to 1234 etc so there is no
chance of clustering and it will make the searching process
easier
Also finding the next available index will also be
easy in quadratic probing.